Previously on legends...
Dobson: You don't remember
anything about basra?
Wonder how you survived...
Sonya?
At our wedding,
We exchanged vows.
Do you remember?
Where's this coming from?
I want to be with you.
Sonya: What's gonna happen when
he finds out I've been lying
To him for
the past ten years?
For his safety, he can't
ever know the truth.
Milloy: Prince abboud
of the house of saud
Will be in los angeles
For a highly-classified
energy meeting
At the arcadia policy council.
Get down!
I've got hard proof
Prince fayeen conspired with
the arcadia policy council
To assassinate prince abboud.
Gates:
So, what's the plan?
Martin:
Make the prince try to kill me.
With this, I'm sure I'll be
easy to keep track of.
They'll want to find out who
I gave the intelligence to.
Hold on.
Maggie:
The signal's gone.
Maggie, where is he?
It's being blocked.
Lock the area down.
We just got an agent abducted.
Bashir:
We know your name.
(doorbell rings)
Special agent martin odum
of the fbi.
You will see, there are worse
things than physical pain.
This way, this way.
Hurry!
We removed your microchip.
Your associates won't
be able to find you.
You're on your own, special
agent martin odum of the fbi.
I don't know what
you're talking about.
Bashir:
We know who you are.
We know all about
the fbi's investigations
Into the arcadia council
and prince fayeen.
Your investigation is over.
I'm sebastian egan,
And the truth is coming out,
No matter what you do to me.
Hani jibril
killed abboud.
You will end your investigation
into prince fayeen.
You've got the wrong guy.
Bashir: I must admit,
I was, uh...
Quite impressed
by your undercover persona.
I know you have
many identities, agent odum.
Tell me, when you're
in it that deep,
Is it hard to keep track
of the real martin?
My name is sebastian egan.
Do you even know
who martin odum is anymore?
(chuckles)
Look, the story's getting out.
You can't do anything.
I admire that death is not
your first concern.
But it makes me wonder what is.
Your country?
Your god?
No, I don't think so.
It is... Your family.
(chuckles)
There's something
you should know.
Yeah...?
Yeah, what's that?
I'm gonna kill you.
Crystal: We think we know
how they abducted martin.
Traffic cameras show
an 18-wheeler
Heading out of the area right
before we got there.
They drove the limo
into the trailer?
Which was probably lined with
something to hide his signal.
What does that tell you?
They knew martin was fbi.
How'd they know that?
Sir, the truck tags
came back no good.
Serial numbers were altered.
These guys covered
every single detail.
What about a visual search?
There's an orange stripe
on the side of the cab,
But it turns out
it's a common design.
A bolo's gone out
statewide already.
Gates: I've
got a briefing
With the attorney general
in five. Keep me apprised.
Sir... Martin's
been missing
For nine hours.
He could be anywhere.
And wherever he is, he's
depending on us to find him.
Okay?
Yes, sir.
(phone rings)
Crystal.
Drop whatever you're doing.
I need you to get over
to sonya odum's house right now.
What's wrong?
She sent a 911.
What do you want with us?
I want you to shut up.
Don't talk
to my mom like that.
Aiden.
How... How do you
say this, uh...
"chip off the block"?
You know my husband?
Where's my dad?
Your dad is talking
to a friend of mine.
Why don't we
give him a call?
I know he would love
to hear from you.
(auto-dial beeping)
(phone rings)
Sonya?
We're okay.
Dad.
It's all right, kid.
Don't be scared.
Now do you understand
what I can do?
Dad! Don't...
(over phone): Aiden!
...Give up!
Sonya!
(grunting)
You bastard.
I'll kill you.
Yeah, you know what,
that depends.
If prince fayeen suffers
any negative consequences,
Your family will be killed.
Do you understand me?
Mom, are you okay?
(panting):
Yeah.
Okay, you win.
You win.
Just let them go.
Please.
Okay...
Untie him and clean him up.
Let's see what
he has to say.
(grunting)
(crack)
(gunshots)
Tactical backup is en route.
Satellite's coming online,
stand by.
We're one minute out.
Stay alert.
They probably
got the perimeter covered.
♪
We're too late.
Crystal: Definite signs
of a struggle, sir.
They were
taken.
Any sense of how long?
Coffee's still warm.
We just missed 'em.
Get saunders from
crisis management
over there right away.
Yes, sir. I'm also sending the
forensic unit to the scene now.
We're gonna knock on
Some doors, see if anybody
saw anything.
Sir, I have an incoming call
on our secure line.
Hello? Oh, my god.
Sir, I have martin.
You're on speaker.
Martin, where are you?
Nelson, listen to me.
Sonya and aiden are in trouble.
Get someone over there.
Gates:
Rice and crystal are
already on the scene.
Martin, your wife
and son are missing.
♪
Mom, what's
going on?
No...
Holy shit.
Hey, maggie.
If bashir doesn't call by
tonight, we'll move again.
He won't call.
My guess is martin
made sure of that.
He doesn't call,
then you die.
Sonya:
Until then,
My son is hungry,
he needs to eat.
You don't fight
like a housewife.
I think you broke
my man's ribs.
It appears martin odum isn't
the only one with secrets, huh?
Mom, what's
he talking about?
Hmm?
I don't know, aiden.
Okay, I talked to cia
and state.
This is everything that
I could get on bashir.
He asked for a lawyer.
Right after gates
designated him
An enemy combatant.
If that doesn't scare
the truth out of him...
Yeah, well, it better.
It's only a matter of time
before those kidnappers
Realize that
we have him.
You think they'll kill
sonya and aiden?
I need to get in there.
Where's gates?
He's talking to martin.
(sniffs)
Sure you don't
need a hospital?
No.
Crystal's going to do
the interrogation.
I get first crack at him,
nelson. No one else.
That's a bad idea.
It's my family.
My prisoner, my interrogation.
Crystal will be in there, too.
Yeah?
As long as she doesn't
get in my way.
Where's my family?
I don't know.
Where?
It wasn't the plan
to take them.
No, the plan was to kill them.
I'm telling you,
I don't know where they are.
How do I find hassan?
You should have left this alone.
You think you can
hide from us?
We found you once before.
We will find you again.
Wherever you go,
you will never be safe.
(groaning)
Anything happens to my family,
and I'll kill you,
If it takes me
the rest of my life.
Where?!
Martin, enough!
(choking)
(bashir choking)
(groaning and gasping)
(bashir gasps loudly, coughs)
Crystal:
Sit down, mr. Bashir.
(gasping)
Sit down!
(panting)
Crystal:
What is
The desert code?
Is it an eye
for an eye?
A child for a child?
You have a daughter--
Samara-- she lives
with her mother
In washington,
isn't that right?
Uh...
You threatened to kill all of us
and our families.
Why the hell wouldn't I kill
your daughter?
You can't.
You're fbi.
Oh, I guess
we're handling things
In a more unofficial capacity.
Crystal:
Who do you work for?
No, they'll kill me.
Who told you
martin was fbi?
Who was it? Huh?
Crystal:
We can find her anytime we want.
Who leaked
martin's identity?
Arcadia.
Crystal: Arcadia
knew martin was fbi.
Crystal:
Testify...
And your daughter will get
to sleep through the night.
No deal unless you tell me
where my wife and son are.
I don't know.
I promise you, I don't.
Crystal:
Unfortunately...
I think bashir's
telling the truth.
Martin, we're doing everything
we can to find sonya and aiden.
No, we should've never let
hassan go in the first place.
We didn't have
the grounds to hold him.
It's all about arcadia.
I mean, who are these guys?
Some type of think tank?
How'd they know
martin was fbi?
Maggie: Arcadia is controlled
by a management group
Headed by a guy
named jason shaw.
Shaw. I've heard of him.
Maggie: Spent seven years
with the green berets,
And then the deltas,
before he went into business.
I don't care
who the hell he is,
We need to slap his ass
with a subpoena.
Maggie:
Hold on, there's more.
Jason shaw is also
the ceo of verax.
Arcadia was acquired by verax
three years ago.
Verax, the military contractor.
Did I work for verax?
When I was in iraq?
Martin, we have been
over this...
Is that how
they found me?
Is that how they found my son?
You were not in iraq.
You were the one
who was telling me to drop it.
Mccombs, evans, dobson--
you said it was all in my head,
But it's not, is it?
Did I work for verax?
This is my family, nelson.
I want the truth, damn it.
My office.
Now.
Did I work for verax?
Is that why
they targeted me?
Is that how bashir knew
I was fbi?
Yes.
You worked for verax.
And yes, you were in iraq.
Ah... Eight years.
Eight years
we've been friends.
You've been lying to me.
You've been lying to me!
Sit down.
You knew all along!
Please.
You knew, nelson!
Sit down.
I ran witsec operations
before dco.
I was an eraser,
helping people disappear.
In 2004, the director of
the bureau handed me your case.
They said that you'd
been in an accident.
Head injury.
You looked like you'd
been through hell.
Because I'd been in iraq.
I assumed.
They didn't give me details.
I didn't know your name.
They just said that I had
to protect you.
And that your life was
in danger.
So...
"martin odum" is a legend.
Yes.
(whispering):
Mom.
How did you
get that?
You dropped it
in the bathroom,
I was able to
pick it up.
Good boy.
I don't know
your passcode.
Seven, two, zero, five.
Your birthday.
Dad's gonna
save us, mom.
I know he will.
Why go to all that trouble
to hide the truth?
To protect you.
Protect me from who?
I don't know.
It's classified.
At the highest levels.
I suspect the answers
are in here.
"operation raining fire."
I keep remembering pieces of it.
In my dreams.
When I get headaches.
What about sonya?
Is she a part of it?
I have to know, nelson.
Let's just find her and aiden.
Then you can ask her yourself.
(cell phone buzzing)
Maggie:
The phone is still active.
That makes it easier
to triangulate the signal.
Come on, maggie.
I'm working as
fast as I can.
There-- that's
a small airport. See it?
Crystal: Using a private charter
to fly 'em out?
That's ambitious.
Gates:
Call the faa.
I want all small
aircraft grounded.
Hold on, maggie-- isolate that
neighborhood right next to it.
Now, see, I know
that place.
We ran narco raids
out of there.
The builder ran
out of money,
Left all those houses
unfinished.
That's where they are,
got to be.
Gates:
Maggie, alert tactical.
I'm not waiting
for them.
Gates:
Maggie isolated the signal.
The address is 1519 drexel.
And crystal, put 'em to sleep.
Crystal:
Copy that.
You coming or not?
I'll take the back,
you cover him.
♪ I kill the light,
but the lies are sleepless ♪
♪ night heaves
with the bleakest secrets ♪
♪ a shadow waits in the black
♪ and I awake with a devil
on my back ♪
♪ I'm contesting
my reckless weakness ♪
♪ desperately wrestling
restless demons ♪
♪ but all the odds are stacked
♪ guess I'm no match
for the devil on my back ♪
♪ and I plead for my peace,
like a dead man walking ♪
♪
Crystal: Sonya, we want
to move you and aiden
To a safe house
until this is over.
Why can't we just stay with you
for the time being?
That's not secure enough,
in my opinion.
You'd be better off
in the safe house, sonya.
You're gonna come with us,
right, dad?
I can't tonight,
But, uh... I'll, uh, I'll be
there as soon as I can.
I promise you that.
I'm gonna have balasco drive
sonya and aiden.
No, I want someone I can trust.
Tony.
You got it.
That's sebastian egan.
He's a journalist that was
on the hani jibril expose.
This is who
the saudis went after.
This story is just
one big russian doll.
Len barlow,
roughneck.
He was the one
that kidnapped
Our verax field operative
in houston-- kyle dobson.
Dobson was in basra
when it all went to hell.
We had to contain that situation
when dobson became a liability.
So, four aliases?
Well, that we know of.
But what we do know is
That they're all investigating
aspects of our operation.
Our source on the inside
said he's fbi, dco.
His real name is martin odum.
Agent martin odum.
Or whatever he calls himself.
I've been looking for this
son of a bitch for ten years.
You know him?
This could work for us.
Bring me martin odum.
Tell the boys,
"be ready for a fight."
Crystal:
Martin?
Hi.
I didn't expect
to see you this morning.
Well, gates wanted
me at the briefing.
(clears throat)
how are sonya and aiden doing?
They're doing all right.
Spoke to rice on the way in--
nothing to report.
Hey, before we go in there,
You need to know
what's going on.
What do you mean?
I mean someone leaked
that you're fbi.
Your connection to verax.
Operation raining fire.
What is it?
Maggie said you were
looking into it.
I don't know what it's about.
Don't bullshit me.
I'm serious.
They went after your family.
You need to tell us.
I promise I'll fill you in
when I know more.
All right?
The president passes along
his congratulations
In capturing
prince abboud's assassin.
Did I miss something?
Bashir confessed as
part of a plea deal.
The attorney general has set
the deal aside.
Excuse me?
All charges against ms. Jibril
Will be dropped.
Mr. Bashir alone will
Be prosecuted for the crime.
He flipped on his handlers.
I mean, this guy named names--
we're just ignoring that?
Yeah, what about the money trail
that leads to prince fayeen?
They clearly benefit
From abboud being
out of the way.
As I just said,
we will not be pursuing
Charges beyond mr. Bashir.
This is bullshit.
You'll all be
receiving commendations.
Gold stars for keeping
our mouths shut?
Let's call it recognition
from a grateful nation.
Let's call it a cover up.
The director wants dco
off this case.
My suggestion is
that you chalk it up
In the win column
and move on.
This is a disgrace.
Dad?
You must need something.
I tried calling.
You don't answer your phone.
I didn't recognize your number.
So...
I'm assuming this is
an official visit?
If that makes you feel better
about me being here.
"operation raining fire"?
How did you get this?
I found it through the
course of an investigation.
I need to get the
original file unredacted.
I tried the proper channels.
Well, I would tell you
to put it back where you got it.
But...
(laughs)
I gave up trying to lecture you
a long time ago.
Dad, do we have to go
through this every time?
And you want me to give you
A highly classified military
intelligence file.
You were still head of
naval intelligence in '04
When raining fire happened.
You know about
this, don't you?
I wish I didn't.
A friend of mine's in trouble.
I think that he
was part of this.
Dad, please...
It wasn't easy for me to come
here and ask you for this.
Long drive, I imagine.
I took a chopper actually.
I'm busy.
(quiet laugh)
Operation raining fire.
All right.
I'll tell you what I know.
Martin, you almost
gave me a heart attack.
That'd be unfortunate.
I haven't asked you
a single question yet.
What's with the piece?
Oh, the gun's to make sure
you answer.
Sit down.
What's on your mind?
Saudi agents knew
I was undercover fbi.
How'd they find that out?
I don't know.
I was made by someone
on the inside.
And the leak didn't come
from dco.
That puts you
And milloy at the top
of the list.
Just milloy.
Not me.
I don't see much light
between you two.
Like when you're
whitewashing a case.
See it for what it is.
At this level,
if you don't play the game...
You're dead.
I'm not working for verax.
For the past five years,
I've been tracking
their covert activities.
Their ops, their renditions...
Their domestic assassinations.
Check up in that cabinet.
There's a black accordion file.
See for yourself.
I'm on your side, agent.
I'm not sure I'm on yours yet.
Look, I know
"martin odum" is a legend.
You want to know
who you are.
If I knew,
I would tell you.
But verax does know.
They were in iraq 2004.
Ring a bell?
I want to bring verax down.
You want answers.
Maybe we could help
each other.
I wasn't involved with operation
raining fire directly, but...
You hear things
in certain circles.
What was it?
Far as I can tell,
It was a cover up.
Probably the worst
Friendly fire incident
during the entire iraq war.
"friendly fire"?
We bombed our own position.
Oh...
Total devastation.
I heard almost 400 dead.
It might've been more.
My god.
Wiped out a platoon of marines.
Most of the dead
were contractors
For a company called verax.
"verax"?
No kidding.
Who covered it up?
Now, we're talking about the
highest echelon of the military.
Pentagon e-ring.
I couldn't give
you names, crystal.
These people don't use names.
So, why would verax
go along with it?
Because they wanted
it hushed up, too.
Spiller:
Whole directorates
Of the state department
have been corrupted by verax.
They own votes in congress,
Run lobbyists in k street.
No military appropriation goes
through without their support.
What's this?
"ensign."
It's a private intelligence
agency under contract
To the nsa.
Owned by verax, run by ex-spies.
Verax has a private cia?
(short laugh)
And a private military.
And a policy group with arcadia.
You see what they're doing.
Trying to shift the balance
Of power in the country.
Our details are sketchy,
but our intel suggests
That they may be
planning some kind
Of false flag terrorist attack
Against the United States.
Why?
Funding for a spy satellite is
bogged down in congress.
The project needs an extra push.
Stage a terrorist attack,
Verax gets their satellite.
New world order is sick.
Who is he?
John cameron.
At least that's
who we think he is.
He's their number one
covert agent.
Other than that,
we don't know much about him.
Do you think he's the one
who's staging the attack?
I want you to find cameron
And stop him
from what he's doing.
No matter what it takes.
And by the way,
He was there
In iraq in 2004.
Operation raining fire.
If anyone knows
Who you are, he does.
Porter:
Beautiful country out here.
Sources tell me our saudi friend
bashir is in custody...
Spilling his guts.
Look, I'm just
as upset about it.
But we're managing the situation
through the usual assets.
Okay.
We're going
to hang the plot
Squarely on bashir.
Paint him as a zealot
Who worked alone.
And our connection
to prince fayeen
Will be suppressed.
'cause, I mean, you understand
That this is an important moment
In our business.
We can't afford
any... Blowback.
The situation's
already a little...
Too close for comfort.
(rifle cocks)
I understand the optics.
If you understood
the optics,
Then why did it happen?
Look...
Tomlin's gonna take over
Some of your responsibilities.
Okay?
Yes, sir.
I understand.
All right.
So... Have a nice flight back.
(gunshot)
(body thuds)
That had to be done.
Agent (over radio): Fbi agent
odum approaching; he's clear.
Hey, tony.
Hey.
How you holding up?
I'm fine.
Where's sonya?
Oh, she's putting
aiden to bed.
You know, he beat me
three times at gin?
(chuckles)
sharp kid.
Yeah, well, he cheated, so...
You better watch out.
Well, I guess
I better get going.
You know, it's been a long day.
Sure.
Sure, I'll see you out.
Where's your family?
At my cousin's.
You know, she's a cop,
So I figure that's
the safest place
Till all this
blows over, you know?
Aiden's finally asleep.
He was so wound up from the day.
Yeah. I'm sure he is.
Well, thanks, tony,
For, uh...
Well, for everything.
Yeah. Thank you.
It's nice being a family again.
Even playing gin rummy
Under armed guard.
You should quit your job
and come home again.
Yeah...
It won't be
like this forever.
Well, let's go away.
The three of us.
Together, we'll be fine.
Where'd you learn
how to handle yourself?
What do you mean?
Well, that-that move
you did earlier.
You smashed that guy's ribs.
Never seen you do
Anything like that before.
I reacted to protect aiden.
Oh, yeah?
While you were gone,
I took a self-defense class.
Oh, yeah?
One self-defense class,
You knock out a trained killer?
Yeah?
You're being paranoid.
I'm not being paranoid.
In 2004,
I wasn't in a car accident.
I was in iraq.
Iraq?
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Listen to
yourself, martin.
You're confused.
You're sick.
I'm not sick.
I'm being lied to.
When I woke up
in the hospital,
You said I'd been
in a car accident.
I had no memory
of my life before.
You and gates helped me to
put my past back together.
I was martin odum.
But the pieces don't
make sense, sonya.
I'm starting to
remember things.
Yeah. Real things.
You've been undercover
too long, martin.
No, you tell me
the truth, damn it!
Who was I? Huh?
I don't...
Who was I before?
I don't know.
I don't want to know.
I fell in love with you.
Martin...
I don't want
to lose you, please.
I'm scared if
I tell you the truth,
You won't love me anymore.
It's okay...
Where's the guard?
Get down.
(gunshots)
Mom!
Dad!
I gotta
get aiden.
Aiden:
Mom!
Man (through megaphone):
Martin odum, you are surrounded.
Get down.
Get under the bed now.
Don't come out until
I come back and get you.
You're gonna get me, right?
I promise.
Man (over megaphone):
Throw out your weapon
And give yourself up.
Martin, back door.
Man (over megaphone):
Let your family live.
Give me a gun.
Give me a gun!
Here.
Call rice.
Tell him to send backup.
(gunfire)
♪
Sonya (grunts):
Martin!
(grunts)
I've been hit.
No...
Hang on, honey.
♪
You're gonna be
okay, sonya.
Where's aiden?
Don't worry,
I'll take care of him.
Thanks.
How far to the hospital?
Paramedic:
We're eight minutes out.
Keep pressure on that wound.
Why did you lie to me?
I'm so sorry.
I know you were
struggling.
I wanted to tell you
for so long.
Then tell me now.
Tell me now, please.
In 2004,
I was an agent for the cia.
Stationed
in germany.
I was assigned to help
an mi6 operative
Who had been injured
during the war.
I was in mi6?
Wh... What?
I was ordered to get you
to the u.S.
And make you disappear.
Why?
To protect you.
When I met you
in the hospital,
You had massive brain trauma.
Severe memory loss.
I was told to
prevent you
From ever knowing what happened.
To keep you from ever...
Ever finding out who you were.
All this...
You, aiden...
It's all been a lie.
Hasn't it?
It was a lie.
But it became real.
I fell in love with you, martin.
And then we had
our beautiful boy.
I quit the agency
To have a family.
Have a real life.
With you.
Just tell me who I am.
Tell me, what's my name?
Please.
I wasn't allowed to know.
I fell in love with you,
Not the man you were before.
(alarms beeping)
(flatline tone)
she's crashing.
Sonya...
Out of the way, sir.
Out of the way, sir!
Sonya...
Stay with me.
Sonya?
Ma'am.
(flatline tone continues)
Please...
Please don't leave me.
Please.
Stay with me.
(siren wails distantly)
Captioned by
media access group at wgbh
access.Wgbh.Org